okay we have Al jaz's White House
correspondent Kimberly haa joining us so
what more did we hear from Joe Biden in
the last hour and is there any
indication how this assassination of
hania's family members will be seen in
the US
Kimberly well what we know is that the
US president didn't answer a key part of
the question that was posed to him in
that answer that was played just a
moment ago and that is whether he would
limit military aid to Israel and so that
is uh one of the big question marks in
the United States right now there is
growing pressure on the US president to
do so and with these killings of the uh
CH the children and grandchildren of the
Hamas political leader uh there may be
even more uh pressure on the president
to do so the Israeli Prime Minister is
not only UN poopular in Israel but he is
increasingly unpopular in the United
States and uh the
the three billion in exess annually it's
nearly four billion that is given by the
US Congress is increasingly being
questioned in the United States whether
or not us taxpayers believe that uh the
US can afford it or if they want to be
responsible for the 33,000 Palestinians
in excess that have been killed uh by uh
us bombs so uh that is one factor but
the other factor in all of this that is
the concern and for the United States is
the captives in the negotiations that
are so very fragile and as we heard from
your previous guest there they are
reviewing the proposal that has been put
forward by the United States in Egypt
and uh they have yet to respond and that
is something that the United States is
waiting for and now that may not be
forthcoming as a result of the strike
that has taken place and claimed those
six lives and that is going to be a very
very disappointing and complicating
factor for the United States that had
been eager to not only have the Israeli
captives potentially at least named but
also uh there were many that were hoping
that they could uh perhaps see the uh
possible return of some uh Palestinian
prisoners from Israeli jails and also
the possible movement of some who were
hoping to return to Northern Gaza so
this is going to be seen in the United
States as a major setback all right
thank you so much Kim H thanks for that
update from the White House Sultan
Barakat is a professor of public policy
at hammed bin Khalifa University joining
us here in Qatar welcome back to Al
jazer um do you think that this
assassination is a major setback for the
talks well it must be it's uh it's
happening at the time when they were
just about uh revisiting the talks that
they started a few days ago and uh it
does feel as if it has been specific ly
done to derail it and we have we have
seen overall over the last 10 days or so
the moral tide turning against Netanyahu
and his Coalition across the world and
uh we discussed this a couple of days
ago that I feel this time of the
negotiation he has most to lose he has
to climb down more than Hamas has to in
order to reach the agreement for a
ceasefire whether it's temporary or or
permanent phase or all in done in one
phase and and this of course will affect
it uh the discussion is now going around
whether we do ceasefire immediately
ceasefire or we phase it over few weeks
which I think Biden is calling for but
to be able to face it you have to
establish a minimum level of trust
between the two sides and if there was
any trust this is now have really
demolished it um let me just put to you
um something that we've heard from
Israel so in the wake of this
assassination of several me members of
Hamas is political leader Han there's a
former deputy of Chief of Staff of the
Israeli Army y Golan and he's released
this statement he said the killings
carried out by the Israeli military
however Justified and appropriate they
may be point to a lack of political
wisdom in regards to the timing chosen
carrying out such dramatic actions on
the eve of a possible deal for the
release of the hostages constitutes
another serious layer in their
lawlessness I mean this is coming from
someone who is a former uh Deputy Chief
of sta staff of the Israeli Army and
what do you make of the timing of this
assassination and these killings I mean
I we agree with I mean we agree with
them in terms of timing and it's totally
unjustified you cannot justify it
because these three children were not
really part of the military wing of
Hamas they're considered as civilians
the timing the symbolic uh the symbolism
of killing them on Aden futter on their
first visit to their family is terrible
and I think it will have a lot of impact
throughout the Muslim world but uh in in
general I think the uh the way you look
at it the Israelis can claim that this
has been part of a list that they
pre-prepared H which is related to their
use of artificial intelligence you know
this lavender system that they have
where they pre-identify targets and then
depending on calculations the system
just goes and they all have received uh
pre-approval of killing and this is why
we see the huge casualty in in Gaza but
uh but looking at it carefully it looks
more like the Central Kitchen
assassination it is calculated and I'm
sure there has been a human approval uh
element in it because of the way it's
been targeted this is not targeting a
building or compound uh this is a moving
Target and there may be even have come
from the
top it would have it must be I mean this
kind of assassination does not happen
randomly uh also because of um the
timing that when it happened the fact
that they have they would have seen seen
the three children in the car if they've
seen if they identified positively the
three young men they would have
identified the grandchildren as well so
for that I think someone must have taken
the decision to to go ahead and um we
heard President Biden he was speaking at
the White House just a short time ago
and in the past 24 hours what he's done
he's it seems to be that he's sharpened
his criticism towards Netanyahu saying
that Netanyahu is making a mistake in
Gaza is this this development going to
uh sort of strain that relationship a
little bit more to some extent but the
real frustration I think within the
Biden Administration is the is the fact
that Netanyahu by extending this war to
six months now has really taken them
taken them off the ball in relation to
their real strategic objectives their
strategic objectives are to beit towards
southeast Asia uh dealing with China as
a major threat this is the sort of thing
that he was doing ear today with Japan
and North Korea Korea this is what Biden
came in office to resolve and uh his
very um Doctrine at the very beginning
was to withdraw from the Middle East as
he did withdraw from Afghanistan and to
concentrate pretty much on China and
Russia by taking him dragging him into
this conflict for more than six months
he must have overburdened him I mean the
man must feel absolutely fed up that
this is not going to go anywhere anytime
soon he's approaching an election he's
not dealing with the obje that brought
him to power in the first place and that
must build a lot of frustration now this
incident is going to must add to it
because I suspect and I'm sure as we
heard area from the Hamas representative
it will have an impact on the
negotiations if not uh sort of delay it
all for a few weeks at least for a few
days okay Sultan Baraka thank you so
much for that
thank make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer